My name is Cecil Joseph Goff.
I begin to lose, I say, in the seventies, I can't see to read anything.
I see on a peripheral vision.
I was playing in a country band at very young age.
Well, I played the Ten of Bancho, Ten of Guitar, and I played the mandolin.
It was my life.
And yet, when I began reading and studying really,
I wanted to stick with that, and I left the band.
I started pioneering, and then they assigned me to Texas.
I and another brother was stopped as we were holding the phonograph up,
and I was playing it for a lady at the door.
I hear about 15 or 20 men surrounded me.
I asked him, I had did you enjoy it?
He says, that's not the question.
My question is, do you salute the flag?
And I said, let me explain you, so I don't want an explanation.
I just want to know, yes or no.
Do you or do you not?
I said, I do not.
He threw me up in there, I fell on my back in the street there,
and then about three of them got on top of me,
and says, you're going to salute the flag or eat it.
Bring me that flag over there.
I was praying to Jehovah to remember me in the resurrection,
but at that time several women run out of the houses on both sides of us
and let those men alone.
They didn't bother you, let them alone, let them go.
So they got off of me and they left us like a bunch of beaten kittens.
I was asked to go to Brooklyn, Bethel,
and become a member of the Bethel home.
Brother Norr asked me, you know how to use the typewriter,
and I said, yes, I can type.
He says, well, I'm going to put you on a machine.
It's called a line of type.
There's three keyboards, and he says,
it'll take you about two years to learn it.
Are you willing to accept it?
And I said, yes, I will.
So I was put on the line of the type.
And I got married in the fall of 1945, left Bethel.
Well, we were invited in 1949 to go into the circuit work.
We were in the 21st class of Gillard,
who enjoyed that course very much.
We received an assignment for Cuba,
and I was assigned as a branch overseer.
And in 1963,
the police car came up to the branch about 10 o'clock at night.
I was told to take my papers,
and we went over to the police station, so forth.
And sure enough, soon thereafter,
here come in an official,
said you were having to leave Cuba,
because you're not in favor of the Cuban government.
The person asked,
a policeman standing close by,
this says,
who are these people that are being sent out of the country?
And this says, over there,
he's talking about me.
See that gangster man over there?
He's ahead of it.
So what then, we got on the plane,
and we headed back,
a guy didn't contact with Brooklyn Bethel.
He talked to brother and sister,
and he says,
as soon as you can,
next day or two,
come back to Bethel.
Brother Norris said,
you got back just in time
to get back on the landing time machine,
and set up a new book we have in Spanish.
So I did that, he got on the landing time.
And then, Brother Norris told Mrs.
in 1964,
we're going to have a 10-month course in Gillian,
for all branch people who had branch experience.
Oh, it was very, very good.
We studied a lot of,
not only the Bible,
we studied a lot on the Bible,
discourses and everything.
But we studied a lot of branch material too.
Above everything else,
our lover, Jehovah,
should continue to grow.
He knows our thoughts,
our mind, our heart.
He goes far beyond what man can do.
And whatever his decision is,
I've learned to understand,
it's the best decision.
I have learned that if we obey
what the organization says,
what the Bible says,
then we're doing Jehovah's will.
And that's my concern.
No regret.
It's whatever.
None.
Maybe I could have done more at times.
But I'm certainly glad that I have taken advantage of it,
as much as I have of them now.
And it's been a happy life.
And I have seen Jehovah's hand,
timing again.